# Towards Evaluating Single Image Super-Resolution Algorithms: A Real-World Dataset, Subjective Studies, and An Objective Metric
This is the brief description of RealSRQ dataset and KLTSRQA software. For more details, please refer to our paper "Towards Evaluating Single Image Super-Resolution Algorithms: A Real-World Dataset, Subjective Studies, and An Objective Metric". You can change our program as you like and use it anywhere, but please refer to its original source and cite our paper.

# Abstract
Numerous single image super-resolution (SISR) algorithms have been proposed to reconstruct a high-resolution (HR) image from its low-resolution (LR) observation. However, the majority of these algorithms are only validated on synthetic data. So far, the lack of comprehensive human subjective study on large-scale real-world SISR datasets and accurate objective SISR quality assessment metrics makes it unreliable to truly understand the performance of different SISR algorithms on real-world data. We make the following attemps tackle these two issues. Firstly, we construct a real-world SISR quality dataset (i.e., *RealSRQ*) and conduct human subjective studies to compare the performance of the representative SISR algorithms. Secondly, we propose a objective metric, i.e., *KLTSRQA*, based on the Karhunen-Loeve Transform (KLT) to evaluate the quality of real-world SISR images in a no-reference (NR) manner. Experiments on our constructed *RealSRQ* and the latest synthetic SISR quality dataset (i.e., *QADS*) have demonstrated the superiority of our proposed *KLTSRQA* metric, achieving higher consistency with human subjective scores than relevant existing NR image quality assessment (NR-IQA) metrics.

# RealSRQ: A Real-World SISR Quality Dataset
## Real-Wold LR-HR Image Pairs
The acquisition of real-world LR images is the keypoint in constructing *RealSRQ*. In this work, we collect the real-world LR images either from the *RealSR* dataset or captured by ourselves following the same method in *RealSR*, i.e., adjust the focal length of a fixed digital single-lens reflex camera (i.e., Canon 5D3). For each scene, images are taken using four focal lengths: 105mm, 50mm, 35mm, and 28mm. Images taken by the largest focal length are used to generate the HR images, and images taken by the other three focal lengths are used to generate the three LR versions. Overall, we collect 60 HR images and corresponding 60 LR images at three scaling factors, i.e., LR2, LR3, and LR4 respectively. According to scene type, each scene is annotated with one of the following attributes: *Building*, *Manmade*, *Natural*, *People*, *Landscape*, and *Text*.
## SISR Algorithms
In this study, we evaluate 10 representative SISR algorithms, include BCI, ASDS, SPM, Aplus, AIS, SRCNN, CSCN, VDSR, SRGAN, and USRnet. The former five methods are non-deep methods while the latter five methods are deep learning-based SISR methods, and covers recent major publications in the field. As a result, we finally obtain 1620 SR images in total. The following table provide more details.



This dataset concludes 60 high resolution (HR) images, 180 low resolution (LR) images and 1620 super-resolved (SR) images generated by applying 10 representative SISR algorithms on LR images at multiple scaling factors, i.e., LR2, LR3, LR4. Most importantly, the HR-LR image pairs in our dataset are captured in the world by adjusting focal length of digital single lens reflex (DSLR) camera. However, the LR images in most of the existing work are synthesized from the pristine HR image using simple degradation model. The real-world LR images will introduce more complex distortions which provide a challenge to the existing SISR algorithms. We also conduct a large scale subjective user study and perform a comprehensive analysis to quantify the performance of the SISR algorithms that we selected.

# KLTSRQA
In our paper, we demonstrate that the existing objective metrics can not precisely evaluated the SISR results. To solve this problem, we propose a new objective metric, i.e., KLTSRQA, based on the Karhunen-Loeve Transform (KLT) to evaluate the quality of real-world SISR images accurately. The extensive experiments in our paper demonstrate that KLTSRQA is highly consistent with human perception.

# References

# Download
You download [*RealSRQ*](https://pan.baidu.com/s/14yuztHcMpej5OyNMBvK3BA) (key:1121) on BaiduYun disk.
